Welcome!
In this program,
we’re going to talk about the importance
of adapting as Jehovah’s chariot moves.
But first, here are a few updates.
Earlier this year,
the Governing Body approved for branch visits
to resume during the 2023 service year.
The Service Committee
assigns Governing Body members
to make shepherding visits on branches.
It also assigns headquarters representatives
to visit branches.
This is similar to when circuit overseers
visit congregations,
except that the Governing Body members
and headquarters representatives
visit branches.
As of November 28,
over 15 of these visits
have already taken place this service year.
These visits have resulted
in a tremendous
“interchange of encouragement”
for all involved
and have strengthened our unity.
We have also heard positive comments
about the special meetings with pioneers
that are held in conjunction
with circuit assemblies.
One pioneer in New York said:
“I attended the first
in-person pioneer meeting
“in three years
at the Queens Assembly Hall today.
“I couldn’t hold back tears a couple of times
“because our Father deeply understood
“what we went through during the pandemic.
Jehovah is good indeed.”
No doubt many of our pioneers
around the globe feel similarly.
It’s also encouraging to hear
that the Local Design/Construction work
is moving ahead.
Where there are no government restrictions,
Kingdom Hall construction groups
have restarted.
What theocratic construction
is on the horizon?
We now need over 15,700 new Kingdom Halls
and major renovations around the world.
We need these Kingdom Halls
for our in-person meetings!
To begin addressing these needs,
over 1,600 projects worldwide
are planned for this year alone.
And branches are also working hard
to prepare facilities
for in-person circuit assemblies
and theocratic schools
starting in January 2023.
Can you make yourself available
to help with theocratic construction?
Ask your congregation elders
for more information.
It’s wonderful to see young people
assisting with the work.
Think of the training they’re receiving now
that they’ll be able to use
during the great rebuilding work
after Armageddon.
We have another exciting update
regarding freedom of worship.
As Jesus foretold at Matthew 10:22,
we face much opposition.
Jesus said:
“And you will be hated
by all people on account of my name.”
To assist Jehovah’s people,
we have recently established
the Freedom of Worship Office
at the Central Europe branch.
This headquarters department
will coordinate our efforts
to defend our worship in Europe.
Now, you might be wondering:
‘The work has been established
throughout Europe for many years,
so is this really needed?’
Yes, it is.
For example, recently,
the government of Norway
decided that Jehovah’s Witnesses
would no longer receive
certain state benefits
that are provided
to all registered religions.
Here to explain more about this
is Brother Jørgen Pedersen.
We were shocked when we received a letter
from government authorities in Oslo, Norway,
threatening to remove our registration
as a religious community.
Jehovah’s Witnesses have been
actively preaching the good news in Norway
for more than 120 years!
In fact, Jehovah’s Witnesses
suffered for their faith
under the Nazi occupation of Norway
during World War II.
Commenting on how Jehovah’s Witnesses
were the only religious group
who stood firm against the Nazis,
a previous minister for religion exclaimed:
‘People throughout the country
should know about this
—especially young ones
would benefit from this information.’
We’ve always been known as good citizens.
In fact, a public report stated
that Jehovah’s Witnesses
‘are careful to obey the laws of the land.’
Now they’ve suspended our grants,
while there are
over 700 religious communities
who continue to receive such state benefits.
This decision is unconstitutional
and an unprecedented attack
on religious freedom in Norway.
With the assistance
of the newly established
Freedom of Worship Office,
we’re pursuing legal remedies.
At the same time,
we’re pursuing dialogue
with government officials.
And we pray that this situation
will be amicably resolved.
Thank you, Brother Pedersen.
The authorities in Norway
have threatened
to remove our legal registration
because of our Scriptural beliefs
and practices
regarding disfellowshipping.
In the future, various governments
will challenge our freedom of worship.
They may pressure us
to change our Scriptural beliefs.
But we’re certainly not going to do that!
As Brother Pedersen mentioned,
efforts are being made to address this issue.
In the meantime,
please make it a matter of prayer.
At the beginning of the pandemic,
many activities were quickly suspended.
But now, as we’re coming out of the pandemic,
many activities are quickly resuming.
And this is no surprise
because Jehovah’s celestial chariot
moves swiftly, like lightning.
Notice how this is described
at Ezekiel 1:16, 17.
Here Ezekiel
gets an awe-inspiring glimpse of the chariot.
He describes it this way:
“The wheels and their structure
“appeared to glow like chrysolite,
“and the four of them looked alike.
“Their appearance and structure looked
“as though a wheel were within a wheel.
“When they moved,
“they could go in any of the four directions
without turning as they went.”
What an amazing vision of the heavenly part
of Jehovah’s universal organization!
The Pure Worship  book explains:
“Jehovah’s chariot
perfectly reflects the reasonable,
“adaptable God who is in control of it.
“As his very name suggests,
“he can become anything that is needed
“in order to accomplish his purpose. . . .
“Never should we . . . worry
“that our God will be late
in responding to our needs
“or that his organization
will fail to adapt to some new challenge
“arising in the volatile world around us.
“We do well to remember
“that Jehovah’s organization is active,
ever on the move.”
We’ve certainly experienced
the truth of these words
during the pandemic.
Thank you for the fine spirit you show
as we all adapt to these changes.
Earlier in the pandemic,
we couldn’t meet together in person.
But as a result
of faithfully following the chariot,
we adapted and used videoconferencing
for our meetings and ministry.
Thankfully, circumstances are different now.
We rejoice to be able
to meet in person again.
Back in July, the Governing Body
prepared an announcement
that was read in all congregations
about attending in-person meetings.
Do you recall some of the key points
from that announcement?
The announcement began:
“In reviewing the results of resuming
“in-person congregation meetings . . . ,
“it is evident that Jehovah
“is clearly blessing this arrangement.
“We thank Jehovah
for the opportunity
“to greet our brothers
and sisters face-to-face,
“sing songs of praise
to Jehovah harmoniously,
“and make other
appropriate expressions
“of Christian affection once again.
“After more than two years
“of not being able
to meet together at our Kingdom Halls,
“we have renewed appreciation
for in-person Christian meetings
“that lift our spirits
and strengthen our faith
during these difficult times.”
The announcement continued:
“We acknowledge
that because of advanced age,
“infirmities, or other circumstances,
“some may be limited in their ability
to attend meetings in person.
“For such ones, please keep in mind
“the loving reminder at Hebrews 6:10:
“‘God is not unrighteous
so as to forget your work
“‘and the love you showed for his name
by ministering and continuing to minister
to the holy ones.’”
Jehovah will never forget you
and your faithful service!
You continue to show your love for his name
as you regularly attend
and participate in meetings on Zoom.
And this is such an encouragement
to the congregation.
Now, some of us
got used to doing everything on Zoom.
I know for me,
only for Jehovah would I
have done what we needed to do
during the pandemic.
As soon as we could,
I was so happy
to go back to the Kingdom Hall.
There really is nothing like being together
with our brothers and sisters in person.
I appreciate that others can’t.
But I was happy to get back to the hall.
Many feel the same way.
Let’s hear
how some of our brothers and sisters feel
about being back in person
at the Kingdom Hall.
I was so sad when they announced
that we would stop having meetings
at the Kingdom Hall because of COVID.
I felt trapped
because I couldn’t go
to the Kingdom Hall anymore
to be fed spiritually.
For two years,
the faithful slave made arrangements
for us to listen
to the meetings over the radio.
Since I did not have a radio,
I went to different brothers’ homes
to listen to the meetings.
Then the elders arranged
to start having meetings on Zoom.
I do not have a smartphone,
so I had to go to the homes
of those in the congregation.
Sometimes after arriving,
I would find out
that their Internet data bundle was used up.
This made the pandemic very difficult for me.
When I heard the news
that “the faithful and discreet slave”
decided to resume in-person meetings,
I was just so happy!
Now I can see the brothers and sisters
that I had not seen during the pandemic.
I am back at the Kingdom Hall;
I am back where I can have my spiritual food
the way I have always enjoyed it.
To not be able to go to the hall
was a challenge for me.
It wasn’t easy.
But I appreciated Zoom
because we kept being fed spiritually
and that was a blessing.
But still, I missed the people.
When I heard we were going back in person,
I was so excited.
I was like a child going into a candy store.
It was great.
It really was energizing.
You felt alive again.
We all have challenges.
We’re tired.
So who doesn’t need to be energized?
We all do.
And so to come to the Kingdom Hall
—there’s no question
that I am going to the meeting.
You’re with the older friends,
even older than me,
and younger ones.
Little children come running up to you.
That just brings joy to your heart
and a smile on your face.
And I think that’s the experience
Jehovah wants us to have as a brotherhood.
So I feel more fulfilled
by being at the Kingdom Hall.
I’m happy.
It’s heartwarming to hear their expressions.
We’ve received many positive reports
about in-person meetings.
For example,
the Burundi branch recently wrote:
“The decision to return to in-person meetings
“has been a great blessing
to our brothers and sisters in Burundi.
“Although they did what they could
to connect virtually,
“the reality was that many
“just did not have
the circumstances to do so.
“Since resuming
in-person congregation meetings,
“our attendance has increased tremendously
throughout the country.
“For example, in one congregation,
“the attendance was 140 persons
“when the meetings were held virtually,
“but after resuming
in-person meetings at the Kingdom Hall,
the attendance is now 227.”
Continuing with the announcement,
we want to draw your attention
to this one comment.
After acknowledging those with advanced age,
infirmities, and other circumstances
that may prevent them
from attending meetings in person,
the announcement
included this thought-provoking statement:
“On the other hand,
some brothers and sisters
“—younger and in good health—
“have more favorable circumstances
“that may allow them
to attend Christian meetings regularly
“at the Kingdom Hall.
“However, it has been observed
“that some
have developed a tendency
“to attend meetings
on a videoconference when,
“according to their circumstances,
they could be physically
at the Kingdom Hall.”
That’s what the announcement said.
It’s something we can continue to reflect on.
The chariot is moving!
We’re getting ready
for in-person circuit assemblies
and regional conventions.
So now is an excellent time
to evaluate our attitude
about in-person meetings.
Again, we appreciate
that some cannot attend in person.
But on the other hand, maybe some could.
What will help each of us
to honestly evaluate
our personal circumstances?
Well, the announcement
drew our attention to three verses
that express Jehovah’s thinking
on this important matter.
Let’s read just one of those verses
at Psalm 22:22:
“I will declare your name to my brothers;
in the midst of the congregation
I will praise you.”
How we cherish our opportunities
to be “in the midst of the congregation”
at in-person meetings!
The announcement
concluded by saying:
“Strong faith and endurance
are required
“to face deteriorating
world conditions.
“So, we take this opportunity
“to warmly commend you
dear brothers and sisters
“for your faithfulness, love,
and heartful desire
“to praise
our glorious God, Jehovah.
We love you very much!”
Our brothers and sisters in Ukraine
have faced
especially challenging circumstances
when it comes to holding in-person meetings.
Recently, approximately
100 congregations in Ukraine
were approved to resume in-person meetings
where it was safe to do so.
The brothers and sisters
responded enthusiastically.
Notice some of their expressions,
which highlight the joy and benefits
of in-person meetings.
A sister named Svitlana says:
“When the announcement was read
about the return to in-person meetings,
“the first thing I did
“was thank Jehovah in fervent prayer.
“Meetings at the Kingdom Hall
refresh and give emotional strength.
“The hugs and conversations
“improve my mood
and give me the needed support.
“This is especially the case
after spending hours in basements
and hearing bombs explode.”
Nadia states:
“I compare online meetings
“to rescue boats helping us to stay afloat.
“Attending in-person meetings
“feels like being aboard a huge cruise ship.
“The war is taking an emotional
and physical toll on all of us,
“but when I am in the Kingdom Hall,
I forget about my problems,
my worries, and even the war.”
Brother Stanislav
who got baptized during the pandemic
without ever having attended
a meeting at the Kingdom Hall says:
“I am a modern person
and found our Zoom meetings OK.
“But I did not expect that the atmosphere
“in the Kingdom Hall
would be so overwhelming.
“I also find it easier to follow
the presented material and to remember it.”
We’re encouraged by the determination
of our brothers and sisters in Ukraine
to attend in-person meetings
despite the many challenges they face.
Their expressions
echo the words of Psalm 122:1:
“I rejoiced when they said to me:
‘Let us go to the house of Jehovah.’”
What have we learned from this update?
As we’ve seen from Ezekiel’s vision,
we must always be ready to adapt
when Jehovah’s chariot moves.
We do so not only by attending meetings
and participating in the field ministry
but also by staying up-to-date
with our spiritual feeding program.
By keeping pace with Jehovah’s chariot,
we show that we respect
and have confidence in Jehovah.
As a result,
we enjoy what is stated
at Psalm 29:11:
“Jehovah will give strength to his people.
Jehovah will bless his people with peace.”
Yes, by being part of Jehovah’s organization,
we share in the strength and peace
that only he can provide.
May we all continue to adapt
as Jehovah’s chariot moves
and enjoy his rich blessing.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.